fern/docs/pages/manual/llms.mdx, before:

## Running the Server

PrivateGPT supports running with different LLMs & setups.

### Local models

Both the LLM and the Embeddings model will run locally.

Make sure you have followed the *Local LLM requirements* section before moving on.

This command will start PrivateGPT using the `settings.yaml` (default profile) together with the `settings-local.yaml`
configuration files. By default, it will enable both the API and the Gradio UI. Run:

```bash
PGPT_PROFILES=local make run
```

or

```bash
PGPT_PROFILES=local poetry run python -m private_gpt
```

When the server is started it will print a log *Application startup complete*.
Navigate to http://localhost:8001 to use the Gradio UI or to http://localhost:8001/docs (API section) to try the API
using Swagger UI.

### Using OpenAI

If you cannot run a local model (because you don't have a GPU, for example) or for testing purposes, you may
decide to run PrivateGPT using OpenAI as the LLM and Embeddings model.

In order to do so, create a profile `settings-openai.yaml` with the following contents:

```yaml
llm:
  mode: openai

openai:
  api_key: <your_openai_api_key>  # You could skip this configuration and use the OPENAI_API_KEY env var instead
```

And run PrivateGPT loading that profile you just created:

`PGPT_PROFILES=openai make run`

or

`PGPT_PROFILES=openai poetry run python -m private_gpt`

When the server is started it will print a log *Application startup complete*.
Navigate to http://localhost:8001 to use the Gradio UI or to http://localhost:8001/docs (API section) to try the API.
You'll notice the speed and quality of response is higher, given you are using OpenAI's servers for the heavy
computations.

### Using AWS Sagemaker

For a fully private & performant setup, you can choose to have both your LLM and Embeddings model deployed using Sagemaker.

Note: how to deploy models on Sagemaker is out of the scope of this documentation.

In order to do so, create a profile `settings-sagemaker.yaml` with the following contents (remember to
update the values of the llm_endpoint_name and embedding_endpoint_name to yours):

```yaml
llm:
  mode: sagemaker

sagemaker:
  llm_endpoint_name: huggingface-pytorch-tgi-inference-2023-09-25-19-53-32-140
  embedding_endpoint_name: huggingface-pytorch-inference-2023-11-03-07-41-36-479
```

And run PrivateGPT loading that profile you just created:

`PGPT_PROFILES=sagemaker make run`

or

`PGPT_PROFILES=sagemaker poetry run python -m private_gpt`

When the server is started it will print a log *Application startup complete*.
Navigate to http://localhost:8001 to use the Gradio UI or to http://localhost:8001/docs (API section) to try the API.

Commit message:

Allow setting OpenAI model in settings (#1386)
feat(settings): Allow setting openai model to be used. Default to GPT 3.5

fern/docs/pages/manual/llms.mdx, after:

## Running the Server

PrivateGPT supports running with different LLMs & setups.

### Local models

Both the LLM and the Embeddings model will run locally.

Make sure you have followed the *Local LLM requirements* section before moving on.

This command will start PrivateGPT using the `settings.yaml` (default profile) together with the `settings-local.yaml`
configuration files. By default, it will enable both the API and the Gradio UI. Run:

```bash
PGPT_PROFILES=local make run
```

or

```bash
PGPT_PROFILES=local poetry run python -m private_gpt
```

When the server is started it will print a log *Application startup complete*.
Navigate to http://localhost:8001 to use the Gradio UI or to http://localhost:8001/docs (API section) to try the API
using Swagger UI.

### Using OpenAI

If you cannot run a local model (because you don't have a GPU, for example) or for testing purposes, you may
decide to run PrivateGPT using OpenAI as the LLM and Embeddings model.

In order to do so, create a profile `settings-openai.yaml` with the following contents:

```yaml
llm:
  mode: openai

openai:
  api_key: <your_openai_api_key>  # You could skip this configuration and use the OPENAI_API_KEY env var instead
  model: <openai_model_to_use> # Optional model to use. Default is "gpt-3.5-turbo"
                               # Note: Open AI Models are listed here [here](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models)
```

And run PrivateGPT loading that profile you just created:

`PGPT_PROFILES=openai make run`

or

`PGPT_PROFILES=openai poetry run python -m private_gpt`

When the server is started it will print a log *Application startup complete*.
Navigate to http://localhost:8001 to use the Gradio UI or to http://localhost:8001/docs (API section) to try the API.
You'll notice the speed and quality of response is higher, given you are using OpenAI's servers for the heavy
computations.

### Using AWS Sagemaker

For a fully private & performant setup, you can choose to have both your LLM and Embeddings model deployed using Sagemaker.

Note: how to deploy models on Sagemaker is out of the scope of this documentation.

In order to do so, create a profile `settings-sagemaker.yaml` with the following contents (remember to
update the values of the llm_endpoint_name and embedding_endpoint_name to yours):

```yaml
llm:
  mode: sagemaker

sagemaker:
  llm_endpoint_name: huggingface-pytorch-tgi-inference-2023-09-25-19-53-32-140
  embedding_endpoint_name: huggingface-pytorch-inference-2023-11-03-07-41-36-479
```

And run PrivateGPT loading that profile you just created:

`PGPT_PROFILES=sagemaker make run`

or

`PGPT_PROFILES=sagemaker poetry run python -m private_gpt`

When the server is started it will print a log *Application startup complete*.
Navigate to http://localhost:8001 to use the Gradio UI or to http://localhost:8001/docs (API section) to try the API.
