fern/docs/pages/manual/ui.mdx, before:

## Gradio UI user manual

Gradio UI is a ready to use way of testing most of PrivateGPT API functionalities.

![Gradio PrivateGPT](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/drive-viewer/AK7aPaD_Hc-A8A9ooMe-hPgm_eImgsbxAjb__8nFYj8b_WwzvL1Gy90oAnp1DfhPaN6yGiEHCOXs0r77W1bYHtPzlVwbV7fMsA=s1600)

### Execution Modes

It has 3 modes of execution (you can select in the top-left):

* Query Docs: uses the context from the
  ingested documents to answer the questions posted in the chat. It also takes
  into account previous chat messages as context.
    * Makes use of `/chat/completions` API with `use_context=true` and no
      `context_filter`.
* Search in Docs: fast search that returns the 4 most related text
  chunks, together with their source document and page.
    * Makes use of `/chunks` API with no `context_filter`, `limit=4` and
      `prev_next_chunks=0`.
* LLM Chat: simple, non-contextual chat with the LLM. The ingested documents won't
  be taken into account, only the previous messages.
    * Makes use of `/chat/completions` API with `use_context=false`.

### Document Ingestion

Ingest documents by using the `Upload a File` button. You can check the progress of
the ingestion in the console logs of the server.

The list of ingested files is shown below the button.

If you want to delete the ingested documents, refer to *Reset Local documents
database* section in the documentation.

### Chat

Normal chat interface, self-explanatory ;)

You can check the actual prompt being passed to the LLM by looking at the logs of
the server. We'll add better observability in future releases.

Commit message:

feat(ui): Allows User to Set System Prompt via "Additional Options" in Chat Interface (#1353)

fern/docs/pages/manual/ui.mdx, after:

## Gradio UI user manual

Gradio UI is a ready to use way of testing most of PrivateGPT API functionalities.

![Gradio PrivateGPT](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/drive-viewer/AK7aPaD_Hc-A8A9ooMe-hPgm_eImgsbxAjb__8nFYj8b_WwzvL1Gy90oAnp1DfhPaN6yGiEHCOXs0r77W1bYHtPzlVwbV7fMsA=s1600)

### Execution Modes

It has 3 modes of execution (you can select in the top-left):

* Query Docs: uses the context from the
  ingested documents to answer the questions posted in the chat. It also takes
  into account previous chat messages as context.
    * Makes use of `/chat/completions` API with `use_context=true` and no
      `context_filter`.
* Search in Docs: fast search that returns the 4 most related text
  chunks, together with their source document and page.
    * Makes use of `/chunks` API with no `context_filter`, `limit=4` and
      `prev_next_chunks=0`.
* LLM Chat: simple, non-contextual chat with the LLM. The ingested documents won't
  be taken into account, only the previous messages.
    * Makes use of `/chat/completions` API with `use_context=false`.

### Document Ingestion

Ingest documents by using the `Upload a File` button. You can check the progress of
the ingestion in the console logs of the server.

The list of ingested files is shown below the button.

If you want to delete the ingested documents, refer to *Reset Local documents
database* section in the documentation.

### Chat

Normal chat interface, self-explanatory ;)

#### System Prompt
You can view and change the system prompt being passed to the LLM by clicking "Additional Inputs"
in the chat interface. The system prompt is also logged on the server.

By default, the `Query Docs` mode uses the setting value `ui.default_query_system_prompt`.

The `LLM Chat` mode attempts to use the optional settings value `ui.default_chat_system_prompt`.

If no system prompt is entered, the UI will display the default system prompt being used
for the active mode.

##### System Prompt Examples:

The system prompt can effectively provide your chat bot specialized roles, and results tailored to the prompt
you have given the model. Examples of system prompts can be be found
[here](https://www.w3schools.com/gen_ai/chatgpt-3-5/chatgpt-3-5_roles.php).

Some interesting examples to try include:

* You are -X-. You have all the knowledge and personality of -X-. Answer as if you were -X- using
their manner of speaking and vocabulary.
    * Example: You are Shakespeare. You have all the knowledge and personality of Shakespeare.
    Answer as if you were Shakespeare using their manner of speaking and vocabulary.
* You are an expert (at) -role-. Answer all questions using your expertise on -specific domain topic-.
    * Example: You are an expert software engineer. Answer all questions using your expertise on Python.
* You are a -role- bot, respond with -response criteria needed-. If no -response criteria- is needed,
respond with -alternate response-.
    * Example: You are a grammar checking bot, respond with any grammatical corrections needed. If no corrections
    are needed, respond with "verified".
