fern/docs/pages/overview/welcome.mdx, before:

## Introduction 👋

PrivateGPT provides an **API** containing all the building blocks required to
build **private, context-aware AI applications**.
The API follows and extends OpenAI API standard, and supports both normal and streaming responses.
That means that, if you can use OpenAI API in one of your tools, you can use your own PrivateGPT API instead,
with no code changes, **and for free** if you are running privateGPT in `local` mode.

Looking for the installation quickstart? [Quickstart installation guide for Linux and macOS](/overview/welcome/quickstart).

Do you want to install it on Windows? Or do you want to take full advantage of your hardware for better performances?
The installation guide will help you in the [Installation section](/installation).


## Frequently Visited Resources

<Cards>
  <Card
    title="API Reference"
    icon="fa-solid fa-code"
    href="/api-reference"
  />
  <Card
    title="Twitter"
    icon="fa-brands fa-twitter"
    href="https://twitter.com/PrivateGPT_AI"
  />
  <Card
    title="Discord Server"
    icon="fa-brands fa-discord"
    href="https://discord.gg/bK6mRVpErU"
  />
</Cards>

<Callout intent = "info">
A working **Gradio UI client** is provided to test the API, together with a set of useful tools such as bulk
model download script, ingestion script, documents folder watch, etc.
</Callout>

Commit message:

feat: Upgrade to LlamaIndex to 0.10 (#1663)
* Extract optional dependencies

* Separate local mode into llms-llama-cpp and embeddings-huggingface for clarity

* Support Ollama embeddings

* Upgrade to llamaindex 0.10.14. Remove legacy use of ServiceContext in ContextChatEngine

* Fix vector retriever filters

fern/docs/pages/overview/welcome.mdx, after:

PrivateGPT provides an **API** containing all the building blocks required to
build **private, context-aware AI applications**.
The API follows and extends OpenAI API standard, and supports both normal and streaming responses.
That means that, if you can use OpenAI API in one of your tools, you can use your own PrivateGPT API instead,
with no code changes, **and for free** if you are running privateGPT in a `local` setup.

Get started by understanding the [Main Concepts and Installation](/installation) and then dive into the [API Reference](/api-reference).

## Frequently Visited Resources

<Cards>
  <Card
    title="Main Concepts"
    icon="fa-solid fa-lines-leaning"
    href="/installation"
  />
  <Card
    title="API Reference"
    icon="fa-solid fa-code"
    href="/api-reference"
  />
  <Card
    title="Twitter"
    icon="fa-brands fa-twitter"
    href="https://twitter.com/PrivateGPT_AI"
  />
  <Card
    title="Discord Server"
    icon="fa-brands fa-discord"
    href="https://discord.gg/bK6mRVpErU"
  />
</Cards>

<br />


<Callout intent = "info">
A working **Gradio UI client** is provided to test the API, together with a set of useful tools such as bulk
model download script, ingestion script, documents folder watch, etc.
</Callout>
